Previous [[16. React Controlled Components]] | Next [[18. React Side-Effects]]

[[12. React Props|Props]] are passed from parent to child down the component tree. The following JavaScript/React patterns will make your React code for certain scenarios more concise, readable, and maintainable.

## Props Destructuring via Object Destructuring
---
Since `props` is a JavaScript object we can apply a couple JavaScript tricks to it. For example, accessing an objects properties with modern JavaScript object destructuring.

```jsx
const user = {
	firstName: 'Tim',
	lastName: 'Bryant',
}

// without object destructuring
const firstName = user.firstName;
const lastName = user.lastName;

// with object destructuring
const { firstName, lastName } = user;
```

To keep the component as a concise body instead of a block body, destructure the `props` object in the function signature.

```jsx
const Search = ({ search, onSearch }) => (
	. . .
)
```

## Nested Destructuring
---
```jsx
const user = {
	firstName: 'Tim';
	pet: {
		name: 'Maya';
	},
};

// without object destructuring
const firstName = user.firstName;
const name = user.pet.name;

// with nested object destructuring
const {
	firstName,
	pet: {
		name,
	},
} = user;
```

## Spread and Rest Operators
---
Nested destructuring can get a bit messy.  We can clean this up with the spread operator.

```jsx
const profile = {
	firstName: 'Tim',
	lastName: 'Bryant',
};

const address = {
	country: 'USA',
	city: 'Eaton Rapids',
};

const user = {
	...profile,
	gender: 'male',
	...address,
};
```

This can be done when passing props to a child in React with JSX as well.

```jsx
const List = ({ list }) => (
	<ul>
		{list.map((item) => (
			<Item key={item.objectID} {...item} />
		))}
	</ul>
)

const item = ({ title, url, author, num_comments, points }) => (
	. . . 
);
```

JavaScript's rest destructuring is the icing on the cake. This operation happens always as the last part of an object destructuring.

```jsx
const user = {
	id: '1',
	firstName: 'Tim',
	lastName: 'Bryant',
	country: 'USA',
	city: 'Eaton Rapids',
};

const { id, country, city, ...userWithoutAddress } = user;

console.log(userWithoutAddress);
// {
//   firstName: 'Tim'
//   lastName: 'Bryant'
// {
```

The rest operator shouldn't be confused with the spread operator, even though they have the same syntax `...`.  The restoperator happens on the left side of an assignment, the spread operator happens on the right.

### Rules of thumb
---
- Always use object destructuring for props in a function component's function signature. Exception: When props are only passed through the component to the next child component.
- Use the spread operator when you want to pass all key/value pairs of an object to a child component in JSX.
- Use the rest operator when you only want to split out certain properties from your props object.
- Use nested destructuring only when it improves readability.